---
date: '2005-03-03T15:33:00-05:00'
old:
  layout: post
  oldcategories:
  - mythtv
  status: published
  timestamp: 03:33 PM Thursday, March 03, 2005 EST
  wordpress_id: '164'
slug: myth017fun
tags:
- mythtv
title: Myth 0.17 Fun
url: /weblog/2005/03/03/myth017fun/
---

Now that my system has some reasonable hard drive, I've been working
on other bells and whistles with [MythTV](http://www.mythtv.org/).
After the 0.17 upgrade I found that my remote no longer worked, mainly
because I forgot to tell Myth to compile with
[LIRC](http://www.lirc.org/) support.  I decided since I was flubbing
around, I might as well upgrade my system kernel to the K7 kernel (my
mythbox is an Athlon 700).  This went well, but somewhere along the
line (I think before the upgrade) the alsa drivers for my SB!Live card
got toasted.  Oddly enough, I can load the driver, but I don't get any
sound out of the system.  If I unload the snd_emu10k1 driver and stop
alsa and load the OSS emu10k1 then stuff seems to work okay in OSS
mode.  Still a pain.  Because the system is basically only a Myth Box
this should work okay.

Long story short on all these problems is that I need to document what I've
been doing better.  Specifically the fact that I'm not using the LIRC kernel
driver for my remote, I'm using the Linux input layer.  This caused me endless
frustration especially when I saw that LIRC refused to create valid kernel
modules for the system.

I also hacked around some of my startup scripts so the system is dead simple
to use now.  Basically when the computer starts up it starts a GDM session
first, and another XSession just for Myth afterwards.  I'll post some of that
on how I did it in my [tutorials](/tutorials/) section sometime
next week.

With regards to 0.17, it's quite nice.  I especially like the time speedup
option for viewing programs.  While 1.5x starts to be a little annoying,
watching Conan at 1.2x normal speed is really nice.