---
date: '2006-04-03T13:52:00-04:00'
old:
  layout: post
  oldcategories:
  - sun
  status: published
  timestamp: 01:52 PM Monday, April 03, 2006 EDT
  wordpress_id: '114'
oldtags:
- cool
- coolthreads
- niagara
- salespeople
- sun
- t2000
- tryandbuy
slug: t2000-the-arrival
tags:
- salespeople
- niagara
- sun
- cool
- tryandbuy
- coolthreads
- t2000
title: T2000 Has Arrived
url: /weblog/2006/04/03/t2000-the-arrival/
---

After a long series of delays and communication problems, the [T2000 server](http://www.sun.com/servers/coolthreads/t2000/test/over.jsp) from
[Sun](http://www.sun.com/) has finally arrived.  Apparently there was an issue with my original submission back in February.  Once I
resubmitted my request I was approved in fairly short order and received some pretty good responses from folks at Sun.  Kudos to them for making the
most out of an annoying situation.

I do have a few critiques about the process.  First of all, the sales people were, for lack of a better term, sales people.  I started to get
random messages from people I had no knowledge of and seemed to have no relation to me.  I was sent an invoice with a subject line of "INVOICE",
which of course usually goes right to the spam filter.  Finally, I got some helpful documents under a subject line of "[Fwd: [Fwd: cool tool FYI]]",
with no explanation of why I was getting it.  So let me provide a few suggestions to make the process nicer to people like me:

  * Use informative subject lines that are not all capitalized.  Remove all those "Fwd" headers too.  Instead write "Helpful Sun T2000 Documents".
  * If you're going to send me an email from an address that looks
	real, make sure you reply to it when I ask a question about it.
	This goes for you, Rebecca Lukens.  I received an Invoice which
	said I needed to take some action regarding it, I replied to it
	with a few questions and never got a response.  I tried again, and never got a response.  There was also no contact information in the message, which I've reproduced in verbatim here:

    `Try & Buy quote attached.  Thanks!`

  * Take some time to say why you're emailing me.  For example Instead of the above message, I would have appreciated something like this:

    > Mr. Wagstrom,
    >
    > Attached you'll find a quote for your recent Sun Microsystems T2000 Try and Buy request.
    > Should you choose to keep the machine beyond 60 days, you'll be required to pay the full
    > amount of the invoice unless other arrangements have been made.  For right now, please
    > enjoy the machine and we hope it suits your needs well.
    >
    > If you have questions, you can contact me at:
    > [CONTACT INFORMATION HERE]

	You'll notice it's a form letter.  They don't even have to think more than pasting in the current text, but it would be very helpful to me. Also, the change would give it a chance of evading the [Carnegie Mellon](http://www.cmu.edu/) spam filters.

  * When sending out unsolicited attachments via email, also include a web link to a site on sun.com where I can retrieve these documents.
	I trust documents coming from sun.com more than I do general email that is sent to me from unknown individuals.

But like I said, the process was actually relatively painless.   A few frustrations, but I'm happy with the opportunity to test out this technology.
We'll start benchmarking it soon.