---
date: '2003-11-19T22:13:00-05:00'
old:
  layout: post
  oldcategories:
  - rfidPrivacy
  status: published
  timestamp: 10:13 PM Wednesday, November 19, 2003 EST
  wordpress_id: '327'
slug: morning
tags:
- rfidPrivacy
title: RFID Privacy Workshop - Morning (Prelim)
url: /weblog/2003/11/19/morning/
---

This blog entry is a work in progress.  Please give me feedback.

November 15th, 2003 marked the first [RFID Privacy
workshop](http://www.rfidprivacy.org/).  It was held at the [MIT Media
Lab](http://www.mit.edu/) and organized by Simson Garfinkel (Ph.D. student and
author of Database Nation).  Initial impressions were that it was larger than
we expected, and it appears larger than the organizers expected too.  The room
for the very important events of breakfast and lunch could hardly contain the
people.  This was the first indication that it is a hotter topic than most
people, including the organizers, thought.

There were two morning keynotes, from two opposite ends of the spectrum.  Mario
Rivas, executive vice president of Philips Semiconductors, gave the first talk
about some of the business aspect of RFID.  Most of this information wasn't new
to anyone who has followed RFID.  Namely the facts that RFID can greatly
improve the efficiency of supply chains and would be a boon to any retail store
that has to occasionally do inventory.  What was a little disturbing is how he
glossed over security quite a bit.  The comment was made that they have the
best cryptologists working for them and are able to stay two steps ahead of the
bad guys, but for many in the audience with a knowledge of cryptology, this did
not calm our nerves.  I'd much rather know how the data is encrypted between
the reader and tag than to just know it is encrypted.  A final good point that
was made was the deployment of RFID devices.  Many organizations have RFID
cards that are used for entry, MIT does and so did [IIT](http://www.iit.edu/)
when I went there (both under the brand name of "Prox" cards).  Also, many
transportation agencies are deploying RFID passes, such as the London Transport
and the Chicago Transit Authority.  These are nice for the consumer because the
cards don't expire and value can be replaced if lost.  They're nice for the
provider because they can track wherever you get on a train or bus.

Next up was Katherine Albrecht from [CASPIAN](http://www.spychips.com/), a
consumer rights organization that seeks more assurances about the safety and
privacy of RFID devices.  A great amount of points were discussed about how
manufacturers are relying on the complete apathy of consumers to push this
technology through.  Some of the largest threats are problems arising from
hidden tags and the possibility of data aggregation.  She also spent some time
showing off some of the tags and showing how various companies like
[Wal-Mart](http://www.walmart.com/) have been using them in tests without
telling people (this is yet another reason why you should boycott Wal-Mart,
that and they only sell crap).

Matt Reynolds from [ThingMagic](http://www.thingmagic.com/) was the next person
up to talk, this was probably one of the most helpful talks and made me happy
that I spent time getting my electrical engineering degree even though I'll
probably never use it.  For complete details, please check out his
[slides](http://www.rfidprivacy.org/papers/physicsofrfid.pdf).  Basically the
issue is this, with a 1W transmitter you will not be able to read any RFID chip
from more than 20 meters away, the laws of physics just don't allow it as
you'll get too much noise over such a distance.  This is because for 915MHz
tags (the most common) the power decreases with square of distance.  For
13.56MHz it decreases with the distance to the sixth power.  Furthermore,
because we're still sending radio waves they should be fairly easy to block by
things like metal or big bags of water salt water (humans).  Thus ramming an
RFID tag in your armpit will effectively kill it.  I'll stress again, read the
slides, they'll make you feel better about how RFID is not this solution
to/cause of all the worlds woes that one might think it is.

The initial session concluded with a panel discussion by the first three
presenters.  There wasn't anything really new that was brought up at this
point, just some clarifications and a nice slide form Katherine that showed the
distances that various manufacturers claimed their tags could be read from.

