---
date: '2004-11-13T10:54:00-05:00'
old:
  layout: post
  oldcategories:
  - freedom
  status: published
  timestamp: 10:54 AM Saturday, November 13, 2004 EST
  wordpress_id: '244'
slug: tsadata2
tags:
- freedom
title: Fight the TSA and Secure Flight
url: /weblog/2004/11/13/tsadata2/
---

The TSA seems to be rolling ahead with the horribly named "Secure Flight"
program that will do nothing to protect us.  As more evidence, I received
the following email today on the IP list:





>

>
>
U.S. Airlines Must Supply Travel Records by Nov. 23, U.S. Says

2004-11-12 11:59 (New York)

>
>

>
>
By John Hughes

>
>

>
>
Nov. 12 (Bloomberg) -- U.S. airlines were ordered to hand
 over records of all passengers who flew domestically in June so
 the government can test a new system aimed at keeping terrorists
 off airplanes. Carriers must comply by Nov. 23.

>
>

>
>
      The records of the 72 carriers including AMR Corp.'s
 American Airlines and UAL Corp.'s United Airlines include names,
 addresses and itineraries, the Transportation Security
 Administration said in an order today. The agency will compare
 the passengers against government watchlists in a 30-day test of
 the program called Secure Flight, slated to begin next year.

>
>

>
>
      The program ``would identify passengers known or reasonably
 suspected to be engaged in terrorist activity,'' said the order
 signed by privacy officer Lisa Dean, and ``prevent them from
 boarding a domestic flight.''

>
>

>
>
      The government plans to replace the existing screening
 system since terrorists boarded four commercial jets in the Sept.
 11 attacks that killed 2,749. The government dropped a planned
 earlier version called CAPPS II after privacy groups complained.
 Privacy advocates also asked the government to suspend the new
 version until more information on its workings can be disclosed.

>
>

>
>
--Editor: Simenhoff

>
>






Now, normally this wouldn't bother me much, as I don't fly all that much, but
I did fly during the month of June, which causes me some concern, because this
means that my information will be handed over to the TSA.  Furthermore, I have
no idea of knowing what information will be handed over.  Figuring that trying
something is better than doing nothing, I decided to give Continental a call
at 1-800-We-Care-2, which is their customer service number.






I calmly explained the situation to the representative on the phone and
explained that I wanted to know what of my information they were handing over
to the TSA.  Her response was that it was Continental's policy to hand over
any and all information that the TSA asks for.  I then inquired how this related
to their privacy policy, she again stated that it was their policy to turn over
any and all information that the TSA asks for.  This wasn't going anywhere fast.






Explaining that I understood that was Continentals position, I asked if they
were going to notify their customers that they were violating their privacy
policy.  She said no.  I asked why not.  She cited security related issues.
Yeah right.  I then asked what of my information was going to be handed over to
the TSA.  She said "Continental does not have that information".  This seems
like clearly the lady wasn't understanding or was crazy, most likely the former.
I asked how they were able to hand over information they didn't have.  She said
that they would comply with any TSA request.  Then I asked for a collection of
what information they had on me.  She said they could not release that for
security reasons.  That's probably a good thing, they shouldn't be giving out
information like that over the telephone.






At this point the lady began to get combative and said that there was no way
that we could figure out what information the government has on us.  I told her
about our ability to FOIA our records and said that I was prepared to do that
for the information obtained by the TSA.  She said that if I wanted to get
anywhere I would need to call the TSA about this.  Their phone number is
1-866-289-9673.  It seemed like this must be a frequent question because she
quickly provided me with their email and postal address too.






It again asked how calling the TSA could get me information that Continental
had not yet turned over to the federal government.  She said that's all she
could say.  Then she changed drastically and said that Continental had not
received notice of what information they were required to turn over, which is
a non-truth, as I'm sure they have.  She also said that it was uncertain whether
or not Continental was going to turn over information at all.  Which was
a direct contradiction of what she previously said.  She also started talking
about how she was a consumer and was concerned about this and how she thought
there was nothing she could do.  I told her that I was fighting back and that
she should to.  Alas, she seemed resigned to having big brother watch over her.
After all, she works for the airline, so there is nothing she could do.






Moving on, I thanked the lady and picked up the phone to call the TSA.  The
operator on the line had a poor command of English and almost sounded like she
was outsourced, but I don't think that's the case.  I explained the situation
of how I was concerned about secure flight.  At first she thought that I wanted
to report a security issue on a flight.  No, I do not.  I want to know what
information the government is collecting on me.  I tried again, using smaller
words and she appeared to understand this time; or at the very least realized
that this was outside her realm.  She then asked that I leave my name and number
and someone would call me back later.  So I did, but I left my work number.
If I don't hear from someone by the end of the semester I'm gonna FOIA my
records and see what fun they hold inside.






Fight the power!  You should try this too!  It's a fun activity for a Saturday
morning!
