---
date: '2004-10-17T23:15:00-04:00'
old:
  layout: post
  oldcategories:
  - c
  status: published
  timestamp: 11:15 PM Sunday, October 17, 2004 EDT
  wordpress_id: '321'
slug: xmlsnipe
tags:
- c
title: xmlsnipe
url: /weblog/2004/10/17/xmlsnipe/
---

I've been looking for a simple command line tool that allows some manipulation
of XML files.  Basically, what I need is a little program that allows me to
print out some nodes, delete others, replace some more, and in general, have
a good old time mangling XML files.  The main reason is because one of the tools
we use in our labs requires the use of a XML configuration file.  If I want
to run in a batch mode, I need a tool that lets me vary parameters easily and
rerun the program with the changed parameters.






Enter xmlsnipe!






xmlsnipe is a little program that I'm writing that is a little like a sed clone
for XML files.  You may ask, why shouldn't I just use SED, well, the answer is
because that just wouldn't be right.  Also, I needed to sharpen up my coding
skills.  That being said, while it would be easy to write xmlsnipe in something
that has support for XML, like Python, C#, or Java, I wanted to make it more
difficult to write, and more primal.  I'm writing it in C.






I've got it going okay so far.  It's already automakeized and what not.  I must
say that [pkgconfig](http://www.freedesktop.org/software/pkgconfig/)
makes this much easier.  Anyway, right now it can just delete and print nodes.
I'm in the process of making it able to change values of nodes.  Which is what
I really needed it to do.  Once that happens I'll probably make a sourceforge
page for the project and put a small release up on my
[projects](/projects/) page.
