title: Iron April 2009
timestamp: 01:00 PM Thursday, April 02, 2009 EDT
status: published
slug: iron-april-2009
tags:
- iron april
- ironman
- personal
- exercise
- fitness
url: /weblog/2009/04/02/iron-april-2009/

layout: post
oldcategories:
- personal
oldtags:
- exercise
- fitness
- iron april
- ironman
wordpress_id: '718'

---

I'm officially on the hook for competing in [Iron April 2009](http://kevinhaugh.blogspot.com/2008/03/iron-april-2008-athletes.html).  It's an interesting event organized by a real Ironman, [Kevin Haugh](http://kevinhaugh.blogspot.com/), that takes loads of folks who normally don't triathalons and convinces them to do the distance of an Ironman over the course of the month of April.  It's an informal sort of competition where you're motivated by the other folks who are also trying to accomplish the same thing.  There's not prize for being the first person to finish, other than knowing that you managed to complete Iron April.  Each person has a page where they post their updates and progress.  I'll be posting little short blurbs [here](http://kevinhaugh.blogspot.com/2005/01/patrick-wagstrom.html).  In addition, sometime soon I'll also create some sort of widget that I can use to post my overall progress on the sidebar of the blog.

I'm fairly certain that the running will be no problem.  Most weeks I break 26.2 miles without the extra motivation.  If I don't hit 26.2 miles this month it will be because I've done something stupid and injured myself.  Swimming just requires me to go to the pool a couple of times and get a few hours of swimming in, not a big deal when you're on a university campus.  The difficult thing will be biking.  I'm going to start biking to and from school every day, which gives me about 4 miles along the bike trails.  I'll also have to do some longer bike routes on the weekend or on my off days from running.

In any case, it looks fun and is the first baby steps toward me eventually doing a real Ironman race.
